Race Timing Console Application — Features & Usage Guide
Overview
This console application is designed to manage timing and scoring for cross country or similar races. It supports:

Individual and team results

Race timing with millisecond precision (system clock)

RFID tag timing via live file monitoring

Manual entry of finish times by bib number

Support for multiple races/heats via race numbers

Team scoring with top 5 finishers and 2 displacers

Sound alerts on finish time entries

Results storage in SQLite database files named by race date

Importing runner data from CSV files

Features
1. Runner Data Management
Import runners via CSV files with columns:
bib, name, team, and optional rfid tag.

Duplicate bibs or RFID tags are detected and skipped.

2. Timing & Results Entry
RFID Mode:
Monitors a file named data/rfid_input.txt for new RFID tag scans.
When a valid RFID is detected, the associated runner's finish time is recorded.

Manual Mode:
Allows entering bib numbers manually to record finish times.

Supports multiple race numbers for heats. Each finish is associated with the current race number.

3. Team Scoring
Calculates team scores by summing places of the top 5 finishers per team.

Includes 2 additional displacers for tie-breaks or influence.

Teams with fewer than 5 finishers will not be scored.

4. Sound Alerts
Plays a beep sound on every recorded finish to alert the operator.

5. Data Persistence
Stores all runners and results in a SQLite database named as YYYYMMDDRace.db inside the data directory.

Database created automatically for the current date on program start.

How to Use
Startup
Run the program:

nginx
Copy code
python race_timing_console.py
If needed, create and place a beep.mp3 sound file in the same directory.

Main Menu Options
Load runners CSV

Enter the path to your CSV file containing runners.

The program imports runners into the database.

Duplicate bibs or RFIDs are skipped with a warning.

Record manual result

Enter a bib number to log a finish time for that runner.

The finish time is recorded with the current race number.

List race results

Displays all finishers for the current race, ordered by finish time.

Show team scores

Displays team rankings based on the sum of top 5 finishers' places plus displacers.

Change race number

Change the active race/heat number to separate results by race.

Quit

Safely exits the program, closes database connections, and stops RFID monitoring.

RFID Monitoring
The program watches the file data/rfid_input.txt for new RFID scans.

When new tags are appended, it looks up the bib and logs finish times automatically.

Unknown RFID tags produce a warning message.

CSV Format for Runners
Example CSV headers and data:

python-repl
Copy code
bib,name,team,rfid
101,John Doe,Red Hawks,123456789ABC
102,Jane Smith,Blue Wolves,987654321DEF
...
Data Storage
Runner and result data is stored in data/YYYYMMDDRace.db (e.g. 20250626Race.db).

This allows running and storing results for multiple days.

Notes
Ensure RFID reader software appends new tag reads to data/rfid_input.txt.

For sound alerts, ensure beep.mp3 is present.

Team scoring requires at least 5 finishers per team.

Bib numbers must be numeric.

Results are stored with timestamped finish times (HH:MM:SS).

